CS296N_Syllabus.md, before:

# Syllabus for Web Development 2: ASP.NET

**CS296N, Winter 2023**

|          | Class                                |      |              | Instructor                           |
| -------- | ------------------------------------ | -- | ------ | ---------------------------------------- |
| CRN | 30397                       |      | Name         | Brian Bird                           |
| Credits | 4                                    |      | Email        | birdb@lanecc.edu                     |
| Time     | Tu, Th, 10:00 – 11:50                |      | Office Hours | M&mdash;Th, 4:00&ndash;4:50<br /> or by appointment |
| Room | Building 19, Room 128 |      | Office | Building 19, Room 152 |

[TOC]



## Course Description

This course builds on the basic concepts of ASP.NET Core MVC web development covered in CS295N, to cover topics including security, web APIs, and DevOps.

### Learning Outcomes

To be able to develop a web application that uses the ASP.NET Core framework for a moderately complex web application.



## Learning Resources

### Textbook  

*Murach’s ASP.NET Core MVC*, 2nd Edition, by Mary Delamater and Joel Murach, Murach Books, 2022. ISBN 978-1-943873-02-9. You can purchase the textbook from the [Titan Store](https://www.bkstr.com/laneccstore/home) or from the publisher, [Murach Books](https://www.murach.com/shop-books/web-development-books/murach-s-asp-net-core-mvc-detail). The publisher provides free download of [exercise starters and example code](https://www.murach.com/shop-books/web-development-books/murach-s-asp-net-core-mvc-2nd-edition-detail) 

#### Supplemental Materials

The additional resources are available on the following Microsoft web sites:

- [ASP.NET Core MVC Tutorials](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/aspnet/core/mvc/overview?view=aspnetcore-6.0)
- [ASP.NET Core Reference Docs](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/dotnet/api/?view=aspnetcore-6.0)

### Software

Visual Studio 2022 will be used for example code and lab assignments. You may obtain Visual Studio through Azure Dev Tools for Teaching, or use the Community Edition which is available for Windows or Mac OS as a free download from Microsoft at [www.visualstudio.com/en-us/products/visual-studio-community-vs](https://visualstudio.microsoft.com/vs/community/).

####  Free and Discounted Software for Students

- [Azure Dev Tools for Teaching](https://azureforeducation.microsoft.com/devtools) (previously known as Microsoft Imagine Premium) is a subscription-based offering, paid for by the LCC CIT department, providing access to professional development and design tools, software, and services from Microsoft. 
- [On The Hub](https://lanecc.onthehub.com/WebStore/ProductsByMajorVersionList.aspx?cmi_mnuMain=f189368a-f0a6-e811-8109-000d3af41938) has partnered with Microsoft, Adobe, IBM, Symantec, VmWare and other software publishers to offer discounted and free software for students and faculty.

### CIT Computer Lab

The in-person computer lab and tutoring center is temporarily closed due to COVID-19, but tutoring is still available online. You can drop into the [Lane Support Hub Zoom Room](https://lanecc.zoom.us/j/98549544816) and request a CIT tutor, or make an appointment with a CIT tutor via the scheduling page at [lanecc.mywconline.com](https://lanecc.mywconline.com/). More information is available on the [LCC Tutoring Services](https://www.lanecc.edu/tutor) web page.

The CIT Main lab (Bldg. 19, room 135) is equipped with computers and software which are available exclusively for students in the CIT department. There are tutors available in the lab to help you with your lab work. There is a schedule is posted on the large white board inside the lab which lists the tutors and the times they will be available.

#### Web Resources

- [http://classes.lanecc.edu](https://visualstudio.microsoft.com/vs/community/) Moodle is the Learning Management System used for this course. All course materials and activities will be managed through the Moodle course page.
- You will be deploying web apps that you create to the Microsoft Azure cloud. You are entitled to a free Azure account through LCC’s Microsoft Imagine subscription as described here: [https://azure.microsoft.com/en-us/offers/ms-azr-0144p](https://azure.microsoft.com/en-us/offers/ms-azr-0144p/) 



## Assessment and Grading

Specific grading criteria will be applied to each of the labs, quizzes, and exams you will be working on in this class. Part of the lab involves a code review. Attendance is not graded.
The table below summarizes the grade distribution for each of the learning and assessment activities:



| Activity     | Percentage of grade |
| ------------ | ------------------- |
| Labs         | 40%                 |
| Code Reviews | 10%                 |
| Quizzes      | 10%                 |
| Term Project | 40%                 |


Letter grades for the course will be determined by the following percentages:        

|      | -        |         | +       |
| ---- | -------- | ------- | ------- |
| A    | 90 - 91  | 92 - 97 | 98-100  |
| B    | 80 - 81  | 82 - 87 | 88 - 89 |
| C    | 70 - 71  | 72 - 77 | 78 - 79 |
| D    | 60 - 61  | 62 - 67 | 68 - 69 |
| F    | Below 60 |         |         |



### Late Work

- The grade for lab assignments submitted after the due date will be reduced by 10%.

- Quizzes cannot be taken after the due date.

- Exceptions will only be made for illness or emergency situations.

### Academic Honesty

While students are encouraged to discuss labs and to use each other as resources, each student is responsible for his/her own work. In other words, you can help each other, but you can't copy any part of someone else's work. The end product must be each student's own individual work.

### Attendance

Attendance is not graded but will be essential for successful completion of the class. Students who miss a class are responsible for obtaining the course content provided in class and mastering it. 

### No-Show Drop

LCC has a [no-show drop](https://inside.lanecc.edu/copps/documents/no-show-drops) policy which means that during the first week of the term, to avoid being dropped, a student must attend at least one class meeting.



## Weekly Learning Activities

*This cycle starts on the second week*

**Monday**

- Finish the assigned <u>reading</u>.
- Take the reading <u>quiz</u>.

**Tuesday**

- Do a <u>code review</u> of last week's lab for your lab partner.

**Thursday**

- Submit the <u>production version</u> of last week's lab.

**Saturday**

- Finish the <u>beta version</u> of this week's lab.
- Send a <u>PR</u> for this week's lab to your lab partner.



## Academic Calendar

| Winter Term 2023              |                |
| ----------------------------- | -------------- |
| Term begins                   | 1/9            |
| Last day to receive refund    | 1/16           |
| MLK Holiday                   | 1/16           |
| President's Day Holiday       | 2/20           |
| Last day for schedule changes | 3/3            |
| Final Project Presentation    | 3/21           |
| Spring Break                  | 3/26&ndash;4/2 |



## Accessibility and Accommodations

If you need support or assistance because of a disability, you may be eligible for academic accommodations through Disability Services. For more information, contact Disability Services at 463-5150 (voice) or 463-3079 (TTY), or stop by building 1, room 218. 

Please be aware that any accessible tables and chairs in this room should remain available for authorized students who find that standard classroom seating is not usable.



## Course Schedule 

(may be subject to change)

| Week | Topic                                               | Reading in Murach & Delameter                                | Lab Assignment       |
| ---- | --------------------------------------------------- | ------------------------------------------------------------ | -------------------- |
| 1    | Validation                                          | - Read ch. 2, pg. 70&ndash;74, "How to validate user input"<br />- Skim ch. 11, "How to validate data" | Lab 1                |
| 2    | Unit Testing using DI and the repository pattern    | In ch. 14,  "How to use dependency injection (DI)", pg. 560–569<br/>    "How to test methods that have dependencies", pg. 578–581 | Unit Testing Lab     |
| 3    | Publishing to Azure<br />and<br />Intro to Identity | In ch. 16, "How to Authenticate and Authorize Users":<br />- pg. 650&ndash;657, "An introduction to authentication"<br />- pg. 658&ndash;667, "How to get started with Identity"<br /> | Azure Lab<br />Lab 2 |
| 4    | Authentication                                      | In ch. 16, "How to Authenticate and Authorize Users":<br />- pg. 668&ndash;673, "How to register a user"<br />- pg. 674&ndash;679, "How to log in a user" | Lab 3                |
| 5    | Authorization                                       | "How to work with roles", pg. 680–695<br /> "More skills for working with identity", pg. 696–699 | Lab 4                |
| 6    | Async/Await & a more complex data model             | TBD                                                          | Lab 5                |
| 7    | Creating a REST web API                             | Online tutorials                                             | Lab 7                |
| 8    | Consuming a REST web service Async / Await          | Online tutorials                                             | Lab 8                |
| 9    | Docker containers                                   | Online tutorials                                             | Lab 9                |
| 10   | Term Project                                        |                                                              |                      |

Commit message:

Updated schedule of topics
Took out unit testing, added security

CS296N_Syllabus.md, after:

# Syllabus for Web Development 2: ASP.NET

**CS296N, Winter 2023**

|          | Class                                |      |              | Instructor                           |
| -------- | ------------------------------------ | -- | ------ | ---------------------------------------- |
| CRN | 30397                       |      | Name         | Brian Bird                           |
| Credits | 4                                    |      | Email        | birdb@lanecc.edu                     |
| Time     | Tu, Th, 10:00 – 11:50                |      | Office Hours | M&mdash;Th, 4:00&ndash;4:50<br /> or by appointment |
| Room | Building 19, Room 128 |      | Office | Building 19, Room 152 |

[TOC]



## Course Description

This course builds on the basic concepts of ASP.NET Core MVC web development covered in CS295N, to cover topics including security, web APIs, and DevOps.

### Learning Outcomes

To be able to develop a web application that uses the ASP.NET Core framework for a moderately complex web application.



## Learning Resources

### Textbook  

*Murach’s ASP.NET Core MVC*, 2nd Edition, by Mary Delamater and Joel Murach, Murach Books, 2022. ISBN 978-1-943873-02-9. You can purchase the textbook from the [Titan Store](https://www.bkstr.com/laneccstore/home) or from the publisher, [Murach Books](https://www.murach.com/shop-books/web-development-books/murach-s-asp-net-core-mvc-detail). The publisher provides free download of [exercise starters and example code](https://www.murach.com/shop-books/web-development-books/murach-s-asp-net-core-mvc-2nd-edition-detail) 

#### Supplemental Materials

The additional resources are available on the following Microsoft web sites:

- [ASP.NET Core MVC Tutorials](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/aspnet/core/mvc/overview?view=aspnetcore-6.0)
- [ASP.NET Core Reference Docs](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/dotnet/api/?view=aspnetcore-6.0)

### Software

Visual Studio 2022 will be used for example code and lab assignments. You may obtain Visual Studio through Azure Dev Tools for Teaching, or use the Community Edition which is available for Windows or Mac OS as a free download from Microsoft at [www.visualstudio.com/en-us/products/visual-studio-community-vs](https://visualstudio.microsoft.com/vs/community/).

####  Free and Discounted Software for Students

- [Azure Dev Tools for Teaching](https://azureforeducation.microsoft.com/devtools) (previously known as Microsoft Imagine Premium) is a subscription-based offering, paid for by the LCC CIT department, providing access to professional development and design tools, software, and services from Microsoft. 
- [On The Hub](https://lanecc.onthehub.com/WebStore/ProductsByMajorVersionList.aspx?cmi_mnuMain=f189368a-f0a6-e811-8109-000d3af41938) has partnered with Microsoft, Adobe, IBM, Symantec, VmWare and other software publishers to offer discounted and free software for students and faculty.

### CIT Computer Lab

The in-person computer lab and tutoring center is temporarily closed due to COVID-19, but tutoring is still available online. You can drop into the [Lane Support Hub Zoom Room](https://lanecc.zoom.us/j/98549544816) and request a CIT tutor, or make an appointment with a CIT tutor via the scheduling page at [lanecc.mywconline.com](https://lanecc.mywconline.com/). More information is available on the [LCC Tutoring Services](https://www.lanecc.edu/tutor) web page.

The CIT Main lab (Bldg. 19, room 135) is equipped with computers and software which are available exclusively for students in the CIT department. There are tutors available in the lab to help you with your lab work. There is a schedule is posted on the large white board inside the lab which lists the tutors and the times they will be available.

#### Web Resources

- [http://classes.lanecc.edu](https://visualstudio.microsoft.com/vs/community/) Moodle is the Learning Management System used for this course. All course materials and activities will be managed through the Moodle course page.
- You will be deploying web apps that you create to the Microsoft Azure cloud. You are entitled to a free Azure account through LCC’s Microsoft Imagine subscription as described here: [https://azure.microsoft.com/en-us/offers/ms-azr-0144p](https://azure.microsoft.com/en-us/offers/ms-azr-0144p/) 



## Assessment and Grading

Specific grading criteria will be applied to each of the labs, quizzes, and exams you will be working on in this class. Part of the lab involves a code review. Attendance is not graded.
The table below summarizes the grade distribution for each of the learning and assessment activities:



| Activity     | Percentage of grade |
| ------------ | ------------------- |
| Labs         | 40%                 |
| Code Reviews | 10%                 |
| Quizzes      | 10%                 |
| Term Project | 40%                 |


Letter grades for the course will be determined by the following percentages:        

|      | -        |         | +       |
| ---- | -------- | ------- | ------- |
| A    | 90 - 91  | 92 - 97 | 98-100  |
| B    | 80 - 81  | 82 - 87 | 88 - 89 |
| C    | 70 - 71  | 72 - 77 | 78 - 79 |
| D    | 60 - 61  | 62 - 67 | 68 - 69 |
| F    | Below 60 |         |         |



### Late Work

- The grade for lab assignments submitted after the due date will be reduced by 10%.

- Quizzes cannot be taken after the due date.

- Exceptions will only be made for illness or emergency situations.

### Academic Honesty

While students are encouraged to discuss labs and to use each other as resources, each student is responsible for his/her own work. In other words, you can help each other, but you can't copy any part of someone else's work. The end product must be each student's own individual work.

### Attendance

Attendance is not graded but will be essential for successful completion of the class. Students who miss a class are responsible for obtaining the course content provided in class and mastering it. 

### No-Show Drop

LCC has a [no-show drop](https://inside.lanecc.edu/copps/documents/no-show-drops) policy which means that during the first week of the term, to avoid being dropped, a student must attend at least one class meeting.



## Weekly Learning Activities

*This cycle starts on the second week*

**Monday**

- Finish the assigned <u>reading</u>.
- Take the reading <u>quiz</u>.

**Tuesday**

- Do a <u>code review</u> of last week's lab for your lab partner.

**Thursday**

- Submit the <u>production version</u> of last week's lab.

**Saturday**

- Finish the <u>beta version</u> of this week's lab.
- Send a <u>PR</u> for this week's lab to your lab partner.



## Academic Calendar

| Winter Term 2023              |                |
| ----------------------------- | -------------- |
| Term begins                   | 1/9            |
| Last day to receive refund    | 1/16           |
| MLK Holiday                   | 1/16           |
| President's Day Holiday       | 2/20           |
| Last day for schedule changes | 3/3            |
| Final Project Presentation    | 3/21           |
| Spring Break                  | 3/26&ndash;4/2 |



## Accessibility and Accommodations

If you need support or assistance because of a disability, you may be eligible for academic accommodations through Disability Services. For more information, contact Disability Services at 463-5150 (voice) or 463-3079 (TTY), or stop by building 1, room 218. 

Please be aware that any accessible tables and chairs in this room should remain available for authorized students who find that standard classroom seating is not usable.



## Course Schedule 

(May be subject to change)

| Week | Topic                                                        | Reading in Murach & Delameter                                | Lab Assignment |
| ---- | ------------------------------------------------------------ | ------------------------------------------------------------ | -------------- |
| 1    | Validation                                                   | - Read ch. 2, pg. 70&ndash;74, "How to validate user input"<br />- Skim ch. 11, "How to validate data" | Lab 1          |
| 2    | Intro to Identity                                            | In ch. 16, "How to Authenticate and Authorize Users":<br />- pg. 650&ndash;657, "An introduction to authentication"<br />- pg. 658&ndash;667, "How to get started with Identity"<br /> | Lab 2          |
| 3    | Authentication                                               | In ch. 16, "How to Authenticate and Authorize Users":<br />- pg. 668&ndash;673, "How to register a user"<br />- pg. 674&ndash;679, "How to log in a user" | Lab 3          |
| 4    | Authorization                                                | "How to work with roles", pg. 680–695<br /> "More skills for working with identity", pg. 696–699 | Lab 4          |
| 5    | Security: SSL, Cross-site scripting, SQL injection, man in the middle. | Online tutorials                                             | Lab 5          |
| 6    | Async/Await & a more complex data model                      | Online tutorials                                             | Lab 6          |
| 7    | Creating a REST web API                                      | Online tutorials                                             | Lab 7          |
| 8    | Consuming a REST web service Async / Await                   | Online tutorials                                             | Lab 8          |
| 9    | Docker containers                                            | Online tutorials                                             | Lab 9          |
| 10   | Term Project                                                 |                                                              |                |
