Labs/Lab01-Validation/Lab1Instructions-Validation.md, before:

# Lab 1: Validation of User Input

For all three types of web sites, add validation using data annotations to your models. Use validation that makes sense for the properties you choose to validate.

-   Create a new branch named *Lab1* based on your main branch.
-   Add validation to at least three properties from any of your models.
-   Use at least three different validation attributes.
-   At least one property should have more than one validation attribute.

To make the validation useful, in addition to adding validation annotations to model properties you will also need to:

- Add a new migration and update your database
- Add at least a validation summary tag helper to the views where data entry is done.
- Add code to check ModelState in the controller methods that the data entry forms post to.



## Review and Submission

### Code Review

1. Send a pull request to another student asking them to review your code.

   After getting a code review, when you have finished revising your code, you can merge it into the master branch, but keep the lab branch, don't delete it.

2. You should get a pull request from the other student and review their code.

   In the "online text" field of the Code Review assignment on Moodle, enter the URL of the pull request you responded to.

### Production Version

In the "online text" for the Moodle assignment:
- Paste a link to your GitHub repository and branch for this lab.
- Paste a link to the PR with the code review done for you by another student.



------

Written by Brian Bird, Lane Community College, Fall 2017, revised Winter 2022

------

Commit message:

Added reminder to add the instructor to the GitHub repo

Labs/Lab01-Validation/Lab1Instructions-Validation.md, after:

# Lab 1: Validation of User Input

For all three types of web sites, add validation using data annotations to your models. Use validation that makes sense for the properties you choose to validate.

-   Create a new branch named *Lab1* based on your main branch.
-   Add validation to at least three properties from any of your models.
-   Use at least three different validation attributes.
-   At least one property should have more than one validation attribute.

To make the validation useful, in addition to adding validation annotations to model properties you will also need to:

- Add a new migration and update your database
- Add at least a validation summary tag helper to the views where data entry is done.
- Add code to check ModelState in the controller methods that the data entry forms post to.



## Review and Submission

### Code Review

1. Send a pull request to another student asking them to review your code.

   After getting a code review, when you have finished revising your code, you can merge it into the master branch, but keep the lab branch, don't delete it.

2. You should get a pull request from the other student and review their code.

   In the "online text" field of the Code Review assignment on Moodle, enter the URL of the pull request you responded to.

### Production Version

Be sure to add your instructor to your GitHub repository so they can view and clone it. 

In the "online text" for the Moodle assignment:

- Paste a link to your GitHub repository and branch for this lab.
- Paste a link to the PR with the code review done for you by another student.



------

Written by Brian Bird, Lane Community College, Fall 2017, revised Winter 2022

------
