Labs/Lab07/Lab7Instructions-WebAPI.md, before:

# Lab 7 – REST Web API

CS296N, Web Development 2: ASP.NET



## Objectives

Gain experience:

-   Creating a Web API

-   Testing REST endpoints with Postman

## Part 1: Tutorial

Do the tutorial: [Tutorial: Create a web API with ASP.NET Core MVC](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/aspnet/core/tutorials/first-web-api?view=aspnetcore-3.1&tabs=visual-studio)

Report what you did:

- "Did it all" means you did all the steps in the tutorial, ran the app and studied the code.
- "Ran and studied it" means that you downloaded the finished app, read the tutorial, set breakpoints, and inspected the running code.
- "None of the above" means you didn't do the tutorial exercise.

## Part 2: Your Own Web API

1. Add an API controller to your web site.

   This Web API will have REST endpoints to allow users to do the following for each group:

   - Group A

     Post or read messages and replies. 

   - Group B

     Post or read stories and comments.

   - Group C

     Post or read posts and replies.

B\) Test each endpoint using [Postman](https://www.getpostman.com/).  Copy/paste each request and response into a document.

C\) Publish your Web API to an online web server.



## Review and Submission

### Code Review

1. Send a pull request to another student asking them to review your code. 

   After you have finished revising your code, you can merge it into the main branch, but keep the lab branch, don't delete it.

2. You should get a pull request from the other student and review their code.

   In the "online text" field of the Code Review assignment on Moodle, enter the URL of the pull request you responded to and gave another student a code review.

### Production Version

1.  In the "online text" for the Moodle assignment:
    - Report what you did for part 1.
    - Paste a link to your GitHub repository and branch for part 2.
    - Paste a link to your site running on Azure (or another web host).
    - Upload the document containing the results of your Postman tests.

Commit message:

Revised to specify two API controllers

Labs/Lab07/Lab7Instructions-WebAPI.md, after:

# Lab 7 – REST Web API

CS296N, Web Development 2: ASP.NET



## Objectives

Gain experience:

-   Creating a Web API

-   Testing REST endpoints with Postman

## Part 1: Tutorial

Do the tutorial: [Tutorial: Create a web API with ASP.NET Core MVC](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/aspnet/core/tutorials/first-web-api?view=aspnetcore-3.1&tabs=visual-studio)

Report what you did:

- "Did it all" means you did all the steps in the tutorial, ran the app and studied the code.
- "Ran and studied it" means that you downloaded the finished app, read the tutorial, set breakpoints, and inspected the running code.
- "None of the above" means you didn't do the tutorial exercise.

## Part 2: Your Own Web API

1. Add two API controllers to your web site. The Web API (consisting of two controllers) will have REST endpoints to allow users to do the following for each group:

   - Group A

     Post or read messages and replies.

     Use one controller for messages and another for replies.

   - Group B

     Post or read stories and comments.

     Use one controller for stories and another for comments.

   - Group C

     Post or read posts and replies.

     Use one controller for posts and another for replies.

B\) Test each endpoint using [Postman](https://www.getpostman.com/).  Copy/paste each request and response into a document.

C\) Publish your Web API to an online web server.



## Review and Submission

### Code Review

1. Send a pull request to another student asking them to review your code. 

   After you have finished revising your code, you can merge it into the main branch, but keep the lab branch, don't delete it.

2. You should get a pull request from the other student and review their code.

   In the "online text" field of the Code Review assignment on Moodle, enter the URL of the pull request you responded to and gave another student a code review.

### Production Version

1.  In the "online text" for the Moodle assignment:
    - Report what you did for part 1.
    - Paste a link to your GitHub repository and branch for part 2.
    - Paste a link to your site running on Azure (or another web host).
    - Upload the document containing the results of your Postman tests.
