{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf2580
\cocoatextscaling0\cocoaplatform0{\fonttbl\f0\fnil\fcharset0 Calibri;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;}
\vieww24600\viewh13480\viewkind0
\deftab720
\pard\pardeftab720\sl276\slmult1\sa200\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs22 \cf0 Freeman, Adam. Pro ASP.NET MVC 4. Apress. 2012.\
Chapter 3, pages 48-49, 54-59.\
What is a domain model?\
Represents the real world in your application, containing representations of your objects, processes, and rules.\
-------------\
What three things connect your domain model with the ASP.NET MVC framework?\
1. Model binding: models are automatically populated with data from an HTML form post\
2. Model metadata: attributes? that give human-readable descriptions of the properties or give hints about how they should be displayed\
3. Validation\
-----------------------\
Domain Driven Development (DDD)\
Not defined in the text?\
-------------------------\
Use the terminology of the domain in your class diagram. Example: agents and clearances instead of users and roles.\
--------------------\
What is an aggregate?\
It groups together several domain model objects (classes?)\uc0\u8232 Treated as a single unit regarding data changes. Aggregates must represent objects that are changed as a group.\
---------------------\
What is a root entity?\
Identifies the entire aggregate. It acts as the boss for validation and persistence operations.\uc0\u8232 Objects outside of an aggregate group can only hold a persistent reference to the root entity.\
----------------------------\
In the Auction example, how is the unidirectional relationship between Bids and Members represented? \
Bids have a Member, but Members don't have a bid.\
----------------------------------\
In the Auction example, how is the immutability of Bids represented?\
They can only be accessed through the root entity, the Item (?)\
------------------------------------\
Why don't we want code that handles persistence to be mixed with our domain model? \
Separation of concerns: they are independent or orthogonal concerns.\
----------------------------------------\
What is a common way to separate persistence code from the domain model?\
Repositories\
------------------------------------------\
How many data models should a repository use to represent a single aggregate in the domain model?\
One. (IE, one repository with one DbSet(?))\
----------------------\
What is loose coupling?\
Ideally, each component knows nothing about any other component and only deals with other areas of the application through abstract interfaces.\
--------------------------\
\
}